Executive Summary
        	In recent years, Canada’s CO2 emissions have been on a steady rise. As a world leader in oil production it is no surprise that 26% of the country's total emissions comes from the oil and gas industry. In 2018, Canada became the 3rd leading producer of CO2 emissions in the world behind Qatar and UAE. Canada’s transportation is also another large problem and results in another 25% of the country's total emissions. In 2019, Canada released 730 megatonnes of CO2 which was its highest yearly mark since 2008 when 695 megatonnes of CO2 were released into the atmosphere. With an average gain of 3.14% of CO2 released every year, policies and procedures need to be put in place to slow down the production of CO2 emissions. Current Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, has pledged to aim for zero net emissions by 2031 using the following policies:

          - Plant two billion trees to increase biodiversity 
          - Reduce oil and gas emissions by 40-45% by 2025
          - Develop a clean fuel standard that aims to put stricter regulations on fossil fuels
          - Providing $182 million in funding for electric and alternative fuel-infrastructure
          - Creating light-duty zero emission sales targets of 10% by 2025 and 30% by 2030.
 
        	These reductions will help Canada compete in the low-carbon economy while decreasing CO2 emissions. With the aim of Canada’s energy being 90% clean by 2030, Canada will begin to become a leader in the $26 trillion global clean-growth industry. 
 

Introduction
Despite recent progress in lowering our greenhouse gas emissions in Canada, it has not been enough to offset the amount of new greenhouse gas emissions being produced each year. 
 	Recent studies have shown that we are living in a very critical time that something has to be done regarding global warming, as it has been a consistently growing issue affecting us all. It has shown that our planet's average surface temperature has been on the rise each year and has been increasing higher on average year to year compared to the 1900’s. Greenhouse gas emissions have been the leading cause of global warming. We have seen the drastic effects of global warming first handedly has done to Canada, the wildfires this year have been one of the worst for all of Canada, record heat waves all across Canada that also caused small droughts in the prairies, record rainfalls causing never before seen flooding and mudslides. 
This brief shares findings of research completed in regards to greenhouse gas emissions and how it is important to tackle these issues and inform policy responses by decision makers within all international agreements and partnerships.

Methodology & Outcomes
        	Using annual CO2 emission estimates from 1990 to 2019, the National Inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), is an integral part of seeing trends in Canada’s greenhouse gas inventory. These trends can be broken down into a year-by-year comparison which in combination with data collected by the World Bank, shows the broader spectrum of where Canada lies relative to other countries. These two datasets allow us to look into CO2 emission on a Micro and Macroeconomic scale. 

 
Conclusion
  In dealing with reduction of CO2, there has to be balance between economic loss versus the environmental benefit of the reduction of CO2. Canada has to be careful not to hurt its economy while at the same time striving for environmentally friendly means of economic gain through the various industries. Currently, the fact that Canada is placed third in the world in CO2 emission means there is a lot of work to be done.The effects of greenhouse gas has been felt throughout the world including Canada which has been a wake up call to act fast. The current plan for Canada is to; plant two billion trees, reduce gas emission by 40-45% by 2025, Develop clean fuel standards, provide funding and create light duty emissions. 
 
  Canada however has to make sure an alternative is being produced for example by reducing gas emission by 40-45% by 2025, the gas industry is greatly affected. There has to be a replacing industry that will have the same or better economic outcome for the country. By investing in new technologies and the means of production of these industries including funding innovations and research, Canada can make sure that we still have a good economic standing and are able to compete with the world at large. 
 

Policy Recommendations
  For Canada's building sector to be more energy-efficient, it has to find a cost-effective way to reduce carbon emissions and save both households and businesses money. Currently, homes and buildings contribute 13 percent of Canada's emissions (Canada, 2020). The Canadian government has to support home and building retrofit programs across Canada to reduce this amount, such as the Low Carbon Economic Fund and the Climate Action Incentive Fund. They also need to update model codes for new and existing buildings to improve energy efficiency. They should set energy-efficient appliance standards and programs, and support Indigenous communities and governments to improve the energy efficiency of both their homes and buildings. Lastly, they should phase down hydrofluorocarbons commonly found in refrigerators, spray foams, and air-conditioning systems.
  Canada's transportation sector contributes 25 percent of Canada's emissions (Canada, 2020). Investing in cleaner transportation will create better jobs, help Canada be more competitive in the low-carbon economy, and improve Canadians' quality of life. To reduce this amount, the Canadian government has to make historic investments in public transit, providing over $182 million in funding for electric and alternative-fuel infrastructure (Canada, 2020). They also have to establish a sales target for zero-emission of 10 percent by 2025, 30 percent by 2030, and 100 percent by 2040 (Canada, 2020). They also have to provide a purchase incentive of up to $5,000 on eligible zero-emission vehicles (Canada, 2020). They should increase the stringency of emissions standards for passenger vehicles and most trucks, and develop cleaner fuels for vehicles.
Canadian Industries on their own contributed to 11 percent of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions (Canada, 2020). This sector can see significant improvements if the Canadian government increases its investments into clean technology, more clean business solutions, emission fees from more significant polluters, and simply improves energy efficiency within industries. Oil and gas are some of the most significant contributors to Canada's economy. With that being said, the sector on its own has produced 26 percent of Canada's total emissions (Canada, 2020). The best way to deal with this sector is by developing a Clean Fuel Standard and, by 2025, setting fair regulations to reduce oil and gas emissions by 40 to 45 percent (Canada, 2020). Canada's forestry, agriculture, and waste sector contribute to 10 percent of Canada's total greenhouse gas emissions (Canada, 2020). Canada can do a few things to reduce these amounts by supporting renewable energy, renewable fuels, and bio-based products. A way to reduce emissions from agriculture practice is if Canada launches its Canadian Agriculture Partnership. Regarding waste in Canada, a great way to deal with emissions produced by waste is to repurpose waste as fuel by investing in landfill methane capture projects.
Lastly, generating electricity contributes 8.8 percent of Canada's emissions (Canada, 2020). To reduce this amount, the Canadian government has to phase out pollution from coal-fired electricity by 2030, set new standards for natural-gas electricity, increase investment in renewable energy, transmission lines, and smart grids. They also have to support rural and remote communities to reduce reliance on diesel and put a price on carbon pollution from fossil-fuel-based electricity.


References
Canada, Environment and Climate Change. “Canada’s Actions to Reduce Emissions.” Canada.ca, / Gouvernement Du Canada, 1 Sept. 2020, https://www.canada.ca/en/services/environment/weather/climatechange/climate-plan/reduce-emissions.html#toc4.  
 
Canada, Environment and Climate Change. “Greenhouse Gas Emissions.” Canada.ca, / Gouvernement Du Canada, 29 Oct. 2021, https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/environmental-indicators/greenhouse-gas-emissions.html. 
 
“CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons per Capita) - Canada.” The World Bank, 2018, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.ATM.CO2E.PC?locations=CA. 
Canada, Service. “2 Billion Trees Commitment.” Canada.ca, / Gouvernement Du Canada, 10 Nov. 2021, https://www.canada.ca/en/campaign/2-billion-trees.html.  
 
